You've talked to Eric, then, uh, he has a sense that growth,
uh, you know, like the, the,
the entirety of the American system is based on the assumption that we're gonna
grow forever. The, the economy's gonna grow forever. Do you think, uh,
uh, economic growth will continue indefinitely or will we stagnate?
I've long been in agreement with Eric, Peter teal, uh,
Robert Gordon and others that growth has slowed down.
I argued that in my book, the great stagnation, uh, appropriately titled,
but the last two years I've become much more optimistic.
I've seen a lot of breakthroughs in green energy and battery technology.
RNA vaccines in medicine is a big deal already.
It will repair our GDP and save millions of lives around the world.
Uh, there's an anti malaria vaccine. That's now in stage three trial.
It probably works CRISPR to defeat sickle cell anemia,
just space area after area, after area,
there's suddenly the surge of breakthroughs.
I would say many of them rooted in superior computation and ultimately Moore's
law and access to those computational abilities.
So I'm much more optimistic than say the last time I spoke to Eric <laugh>,
I don't know. He, he moves all the time in his views.
I don't know where he's at now.
He's not at, he hasn't gained. That's really interesting.
So your little drop of optimism comes from like,
uh,
there might be a fundamental shift in the kind of things that computation has
unlocked for us in terms of like,
it could be a wellspring of innovation that can, that, uh, uh,
enables growth for a long time to come.
Like Eric has not quite could connected to the
computation aspect yet to where it could be a wellspring of innovation, but.
You're very close to it in your own work. Yes.
I don't have to tell you that the work you're doing would not have been possible
not very long ago.
But the question is how much does that work enable continue growth for decades
to come.
That's for all their problems.
Some version of driverless vehicle will be a thing. I'm not sure when you know,
much better than I do, maybe only partially, but that too will be a big deal.
Well, one of the open questions that sort of the Peter TEALS school, uh,
area of ideas is how much can be converted to technology.
How much, how many parts of our lives can technology integrate in, in innovate?
Like, can, can it replace, uh, healthcare can, you know, can,
can it replace the legal system? Can it replace government, not replace,
but like, you know, uh,
make it digital and thereby enable computation to improve
it. Right? That's the open question,
because many aspects of our live are still not really that, uh,
dig digitized.
There was a New York times symposium in April, which is not long ago.
And they asked the so called experts. When are we gonna get vaccines?
And the most optimistic answer was in four years. Yeah.
And obviously we beat that by a long mile.
So I think people still haven't woken up.
You mentioned my tiny drop of optimism, but it's a big drop of optimism.
<laugh> is it, is it.
A waterfall yet? I mean, is it, is it just.
<Laugh> well, here's my pessimism ever. There are major new technologies.
They also tend to be used for violence directly or indirectly radio Hitler.
Not that he hit people over the head with radios,
but it enabled their eyes of various dictators.
So the new technologies now, whatever exactly they may be,
they're gonna cause a lot of trouble. Yeah. And that's my pessimism.
Not that I think they're all gonna a slow to a trickle. When.
Was the stagnation book?
Two, 2011, 2011. Yes. It was the first of the stagnation books.
In fact, <laugh>.
It's, it's very interesting.
Uh, but even then I said, this is temporary and I was predicting,
it would be gone in about 20 years time. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, uh,
I'm not sure that's exactly be the right prediction, like 2030,
but I think we're actually gonna beat that.
So you think, uh,
United States might still be on top of the world for the rest of the century in
terms of its economic, uh, economic growth impact on the world,
scientific innovation, all those kinds of things.
That's too long to predict, but I'm bullish on America in general.